README.md, before:

# Iris &mdash; Your day, made easy.

Iris is your intelligent, always-ready assistant that combines advanced reasoning with powerful, practical tools. It runs entirely on a local model, keeping your data private while giving you the speed and reliability of offline operation. From keeping your calendar on track to finding information, checking the weather, browsing content, or crunching numbers for a project, Iris works seamlessly to keep your day organized and effortless.

## **Key Features**  

- **Natural, interactive conversations** — Use Iris from the command-line or through a sleek web interface, powered by a fast, private local model that delivers clear, markdown-formatted answers.  
- **Real-time web intelligence** — Search the web, open specific pages, and get concise, relevant summaries for up-to-date information.  
- **Weather at a glance** — Automatically detect your location and pull accurate forecasts from weather.gov.  
- **Safe, powerful code execution** — Run Python in a secure sandbox for quick calculations, data processing, or rapid prototyping.  
- **Seamless calendar management** — View, create, and delete events from your Google Calendar after a one-time authentication.  
- **Smart home control** — Manage Kasa smart lights, including power, brightness, and status checks, all from the same chat.  
- **Web-based interface** — Switch to a sleek, browser-based UI for a more visual and interactive experience.  

## **Use Cases**  

- Stay informed with real-time updates on current events and topics you care about.  
- Automate calculations or create quick scripts without opening another app.  
- Check the weather instantly for your current location or any place you choose.  
- Experiment with and extend Iris’s toolset to explore new agent behaviors.  
- Control your smart home devices as naturally as sending a message.  
- Review your schedule, add new appointments, or manage events effortlessly.  
- Enjoy a streamlined, visual chat experience right from your browser.  

## Getting Started

1. Create and activate a Python 3.13 virtual environment with **uv**:
   ```bash
   uv venv env --python 3.13
   source env/bin/activate
   ```
2. Install the required packages using uv's pip:
   ```bash
   uv pip install "openai-agents[litellm]" ddgs requests beautifulsoup4 \
       rich termcolor RestrictedPython pylatexenc fastapi uvicorn \
       python-kasa python-dotenv
   ```
3. Download a tool-capable model (default):
   ```bash
   ollama pull gpt-oss:20b
   ```
4. (Optional) Set up Google Calendar access by placing your `credentials.json` file in the project directory and running:
   ```bash
   python generateToken.py
   ```
   This completes the OAuth flow and creates `token.json` for the calendar tools.
5. Choose an interface to start:
   - **Command line**
     ```bash
     python gpt-oss-tools.py
     ```
   - **Web UI**
     ```bash
     python gpt-oss-tools.py --web --host 127.0.0.1 --port 7860
     ```
6. Type your questions or commands. In the CLI, enter `bye` to exit the session or /reset to clear context.

## Note

This framework is currently under development. Stay tuned for improvements and new features!

Commit message:

docs: add scheduled task capability

README.md, after:

# Iris &mdash; Your day, made easy.

Iris is your intelligent, always-ready assistant that combines advanced reasoning with powerful, practical tools. It runs entirely on a local model, keeping your data private while giving you the speed and reliability of offline operation. From keeping your calendar on track to finding information, checking the weather, browsing content, or crunching numbers for a project, Iris works seamlessly to keep your day organized and effortless.

## **Key Features**  

- **Natural, interactive conversations** — Use Iris from the command-line or through a sleek web interface, powered by a fast, private local model that delivers clear, markdown-formatted answers.  
- **Real-time web intelligence** — Search the web, open specific pages, and get concise, relevant summaries for up-to-date information.  
- **Weather at a glance** — Automatically detect your location and pull accurate forecasts from weather.gov.  
- **Safe, powerful code execution** — Run Python in a secure sandbox for quick calculations, data processing, or rapid prototyping.
- **Seamless calendar management** — View, create, and delete events from your Google Calendar after a one-time authentication.
- **Scheduled tasks** — Create one-time or recurring tasks, mark them complete, and have your agenda persist across sessions.
- **Smart home control** — Manage Kasa smart lights, including power, brightness, and status checks, all from the same chat.
- **Web-based interface** — Switch to a sleek, browser-based UI for a more visual and interactive experience.

## **Use Cases**  

- Stay informed with real-time updates on current events and topics you care about.  
- Automate calculations or create quick scripts without opening another app.  
- Check the weather instantly for your current location or any place you choose.  
- Experiment with and extend Iris’s toolset to explore new agent behaviors.  
- Control your smart home devices as naturally as sending a message.
- Review your schedule, add new appointments, or manage events effortlessly.
- Schedule one-time or recurring tasks and check them off right in the conversation.
- Enjoy a streamlined, visual chat experience right from your browser.

## Getting Started

1. Create and activate a Python 3.13 virtual environment with **uv**:
   ```bash
   uv venv env --python 3.13
   source env/bin/activate
   ```
2. Install the required packages using uv's pip:
   ```bash
   uv pip install "openai-agents[litellm]" ddgs requests beautifulsoup4 \
       rich termcolor RestrictedPython pylatexenc fastapi uvicorn \
       python-kasa python-dotenv
   ```
3. Download a tool-capable model (default):
   ```bash
   ollama pull gpt-oss:20b
   ```
4. (Optional) Set up Google Calendar access by placing your `credentials.json` file in the project directory and running:
   ```bash
   python generateToken.py
   ```
   This completes the OAuth flow and creates `token.json` for the calendar tools.
5. Choose an interface to start:
   - **Command line**
     ```bash
     python gpt-oss-tools.py
     ```
   - **Web UI**
     ```bash
     python gpt-oss-tools.py --web --host 127.0.0.1 --port 7860
     ```
6. Type your questions or commands. In the CLI, enter `bye` to exit the session or /reset to clear context.

## Note

This framework is currently under development. Stay tuned for improvements and new features!
